.\" Copyright 1990, John F. Haugh II
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\" This product includes software developed by John F. Haugh, II
.\"      and other contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of John F. Haugh, II nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY JOHN HAUGH AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL JOHN HAUGH OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	$Id: chsh.1,v 1.4 2005/04/05 19:08:54 kloczek Exp $
.\"
.TH CHSH 1
.SH NÉV
chsh \- bejelentkezési parancsértelmezõ (héjj) állítása
.SH ÁTTEKINTÉS
.TP 5
\fBchsh\fR
[\fB\-s\fR \fIhéjjprogram\fR] [\fIfelhasználó\fR]
.SH LEÍRÁS
A \fBchsh\fR parancs a felhasználó bejelentkezési parancsértelmezõjét változtatja meg.
Normál felhasználó csak a saját parancsértelmezõjét állíthatja, a 
rendszergazda bárkiét.
.PP
A héjjprogrammal (shell) szemben támasztott követelmény, hogy szerepeljen
a \fI/etc/shells\fR fájlban, kivéve ha a rendszergazdáé mert
neki minden beállítás elfogadott.
Korlátozott parancsértelmezõt nem lehet másikra átállítani.
Ezért nem tanácsos a \fB/bin/rsh\fR\-nak a \fI/etc/shells\fR\-ben
való felsorolása, mert ha a felhasználó átvált erre a héjj\-ra
nem válthat másikra.
.PP
A \fB\-s\fR opció nélkül a \fBchsh\fR interaktív módon
mûködik. Be kell írni az új értéket, vagy üresen hagyni a sort, hogy
az éppen aktuális beállítás maradjon, ami \fB[ ]\fR jelek között látható.
.SH FÁJLOK
\fI/etc/passwd\fR \- felhaszálói nyilvántartás
.br
\fI/etc/shells\fR \- engedélyezett parancsértelmezõk listája
.SH LÁSD MÉG
.BR chfn (1),
.BR passwd (5)
.SH MAGYAR FORDÍTÁS
Szekely Krisztian <szekelyk@edasz.hu>
