.\" Copyright 1992, Phillip Street and Julianne Frances Haugh
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of Julianne F. Haugh nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY JULIE HAUGH AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL JULIE HAUGH OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)lastlog.8	3.3	08:24:58	29 Sep 1993 (National Guard Release)
.\"	$Id: lastlog.8,v 1.1 2005/12/13 11:34:59 kloczek Exp $
.\"
.TH LASTLOG 8
.SH NÉV
lastlog \- a lastlog fájl vizsgálata
.SH ÁTTEKINTÉS
.B lastlog
.RB [ -u
.IR uid ]
.RB [ -t
.IR napok száma ]
.SH LEÍRÁS

A \fBlastlog\fR formázza és olvashatóan megjeleníti a
\fB/var/log/lastlog\fR tartalmát. A listában szerepel a \fBlogin-név\fR, a
\fBterminál (port) azonosítója\fR és a felhasználó \fBlegutolsó
belépésének ideje\fR.  Paraméterek nélkül meghívva a
felhasználó-azonosítók (UID) alapján sorbarendezve jelennek meg az
értékek. A \fB-u \fIlogin-név\fR opció megadása esetén csak a megadott
felhasználó utolsó belépésének ideje jelenik meg. A \fB-t \fInapok
száma\fR opció megadásával csak a megadott számú napon belüli belépési
idők jelennek meg. A \fB-r\fR opció felülírja a \fB-u\fR opciót.
.PP
Ha a felhasználó még soha nem lépett be, akkor a terminál és az idő
helyett a \fB**Never logged in**\fR felirat jelenik meg.
.SH FÁJLOK
/var/log/lastlog \- a felhasználók legutóbbi belépéseit tartalmazza
.SH MEGJEGYZÉS
Ha a felhasználói azonosító számok (UID-k) között nagyobb üres tartományok
vannak, akkor a lastlog futásakor megtörténhet, hogy hosszabb ideig
nem jelenik meg semmi a képernyőn (pl ha a 170-es és a 800-as azonosítójú
felhasználók között nincs több azonosító, akkor a 171 és 799 közötti
számok kiértékelése alatt a képernyőn nem változik semmi).
.SH SZERZŐK
Julianne Frances Haugh (jfh@tab.com)
.br
Phillip Street
.SH MAGYAR FORDÍTÁS
Hermann Benedek (bence@intercom.hu)

