.\" Copyright 1996, Rafal Maszkowski, rzm@pdi.net
.\" All rights reserved. You can redistribute this man page and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the
.\" License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\"	$Id: gpasswd.1,v 1.2 1996/09/10 02:45:18 marekm Exp $
.\"
.TH GPASSWD 1
.SH NAME
gpasswd \- administer the /etc/group file
.br
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gpasswd \fIgroup\fR
.br
.B gpasswd
.B -a
\fIuser\fR \fIgroup\fR
.br
.B gpasswd
.B -d
\fIuser\fR \fIgroup\fR
.br
.B gpasswd
.B -R
\fIgroup\fR
.br
.B gpasswd
.B -r
\fIgroup\fR
.br
.B gpasswd
.RB [ -A
\fIuser\fR,...]
.RB [ -M
\fIuser\fR,...]
\fIgroup\fR
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B gpasswd
is used to administer the /etc/group file (and /etc/gshadow
file if compiled with SHADOWGRP defined). Every group can
have administrators, members and a password. System
administrator can use \fB-A\fR option to define group
administrator(s) and \fB-M\fR option to define members and
has all rights of group administrators and members.
.PP
Group administrator can add and delete users using \fB-a\fR
and \fB-d\fR options respectively. Administrators can use
\fB-r\fR option to remove group password. When no password 
is set only group members can use
.BR newgrp (1)
to join the group. Option \fB-R\fR disables 
access to the group through
.BR newgrp (1)
command.
.PP
.B gpasswd
called by a group administrator with group name only prompts
for the group password. If password is set the members can still
.BR newgrp (1)
without a password, non-members must supply the password.

.SH FILES
/etc/group \- group information
.br
/etc/gshadow \- shadow group information
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR newgrp (1),
.BR groupadd (8),
.BR groupdel (8),
.BR groupmod (8),
.BR grpck (8)
