.\" Copyright 1992, Julianne Frances Haugh
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of Julianne F. Haugh nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY JULIE HAUGH AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL JULIE HAUGH OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	$Id: pwck.8,v 1.5 2000/08/26 18:27:17 marekm Exp $
.\"
.TH PWCK 1
.SH NAME
pwck \- verify integrity of password files
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBpwck\fR [\fB-r\fR] [\fIpasswd\fR \fIshadow\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBpwck\fR verifies the integrity of the system authentication information.
All entries in the \fI/etc/passwd\fR and \fI/etc/shadow\fR are checked to
see that the entry has the proper format and valid data in each field.
The user is prompted to delete entries that are improperly formatted or
which have other incorrectable errors.
.P
Checks are made to verify that each entry has
.sp
.in +.5i
- the correct number of fields
.br
- a unique user name
.br
- a valid user and group identifier
.br
- a valid primary group
.br
- a valid home directory
.br
- a valid login shell
.in -.5i
.sp
.P
The checks for correct number of fields and unique user name are fatal.
If the entry has the wrong number of fields, the user will be prompted to
delete the entire line.
If the user does not answer affirmatively, all further checks are bypassed.
An entry with a duplicated user name is prompted for deletion, but the
remaining checks will still be made.
All other errors are warning and the user is encouraged to run the
\fBusermod\fR command to correct the error.
.P
The commands which operate on the \fI/etc/passwd\fR file are not able to
alter corrupted or duplicated entries.
\fBpwck\fR should be used in those circumstances to remove the offending
entry.
.SH OPTIONS
By default, \fBpwck\fR operates on the files \fI/etc/passwd\fR and
\fI/etc/shadow\fR.
The user may select alternate files with the \fIpasswd\fR and \fIshadow\fR
parameters.
Additionally, the user may execute the command in read-only mode by
specifying the \fB-r\fR flag.
This causes all questions regarding changes to be answered \fBno\fR
without user intervention.
.SH FILES
/etc/passwd \- user account information
.br
/etc/shadow \- encrypted password information
.br
/etc/group \- group information
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR usermod (8),
.BR group (5),
.BR passwd (5),
.BR shadow (5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The \fBpwck\fR command exits with the following values:
.IP 0 5
Success
.IP 1 5
Syntax Error
.IP 2 5
One or more bad password entries
.IP 3 5
Cannot open password files
.IP 4 5
Cannot lock password files
.IP 5 5
Cannot update password files
.SH AUTHOR
Julianne Frances Haugh (jfh@austin.ibm.com)
