.\"$Id: chfn.1,v 1.10 2003/05/01 18:17:39 kloczek Exp $
.\" Copyright 1990 - 1994 Julianne Frances Haugh
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of Julianne F. Haugh nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY JULIE HAUGH AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL JULIE HAUGH OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.TH CHFN 1
.SH NAME
chfn \- change real user name and information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.TP 5
\fBchfn\fR
[\fB-f \fIfull_name\fR] [\fB-r \fIroom_no\fR]
.br
[\fB-w \fIwork_ph\fR] [\fB-h \fIhome_ph\fR] [\fB-o \fIother\fR]
[\fIuser\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBchfn\fR changes user fullname, office number, office extension, and home
phone number information for a user's account.  This information is
typically printed by \fBfinger\fR(1) and similiar programs. A normal user
may only change the fields for her own account, the super user may change
the fields for any account. Also, only the super user may use the \fB-o\fR
option to change the undefined portions of the GECOS field.
.PP
The only restriction placed on the contents of the fields is that no control
characters may be present, nor any of comma, colon, or equal sign. The
\fIother\fR field does not have this restriction, and is used to store
accounting information used by other applications.
.PP
If none of the options are selected, \fBchfn\fR operates in an interactive
fashion, prompting the user with the current values for all of the fields.
Enter the new value to change the field, or leave the line blank to use the
current value. The current value is displayed between a pair of \fB[ ]\fR
marks. Without options, chfn prompts for the current user account.
.SH FILES
\fI/etc/passwd\fR \- user account information
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR passwd (5)
.SH AUTHOR
Julianne Frances Haugh <jockgrrl@ix.netcom.com>
