.\"$Id: chpasswd.8,v 1.17 2004/12/12 20:49:52 kloczek Exp $
.\" Copyright 1991, Julianne Frances Haugh
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of Julianne F. Haugh nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY JULIE HAUGH AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL JULIE HAUGH OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.TH CHPASSWD 8
.SH NAME
chpasswd - update passwords in batch mode
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBchpasswd\fR [\fBoptions\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBchpasswd\fR reads a list of user name and password pairs from standard
input and uses this information to update a group of existing users. Each
line is of the format:
.sp 1
	  \fIuser_name\fR:\fIpassword\fR
.sp 1
By default the supplied password must be in clear-text. Default encription
algoritm is DES. Also the password age will be updated, if present.
.PP
This command is intended to be used in a large system environment where many
accounts are created at a single time.
.SH OPTIONS
The options which apply to the \fBchpasswd\fR command are:
.IP "\fB-e\fR, \fB--encrypted\fR"
Supplied passwords are in encrypted form.
.IP "\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR"
Display help message and exit.
.IP "\fB-m\fR, \fB--md5\fR"
Use MD5 encryption instead DES when the supplied passwords are not encrypted.
.SH CAVEATS
Remember keep protected for reading by others fille passed to standard input
\fBchpasswd\fR command if it contains unencrypted passwords.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR passwd (1),
.BR newusers (8),
.BR useradd (8)
.SH AUTHOR
Julianne Frances Haugh (jockgrrl@ix.netcom.com)
