.\"$Id: chsh.1,v 1.10 2003/05/01 18:17:39 kloczek Exp $
.\" Copyright 1990, Julianne Frances Haugh
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of Julianne F. Haugh nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY JULIE HAUGH AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL JULIE HAUGH OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.TH CHSH 1
.SH NAME
chsh \- change login shell
.SH SYNOPSIS
.TP 5
\fBchsh\fR [\fB-s \fIlogin_shell\fR] [\fIuser\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBchsh\fR changes the user login shell. This determines the name of the
user's initial login command. A normal user may only change the login shell
for her own account, the super user may change the login shell for any
account.
.PP
The only restrictions placed on the login shell is that the command name
must be listed in \fI/etc/shells\fR, unless the invoker is the super-user,
and then any value may be added. An account with a restricted login shell
may not change her login shell. For this reason, placing \fB/bin/rsh\fR in
\fI/etc/shells\fR is discouraged since accidentally changing to a restricted
shell would prevent the user from every changing her login shell back to its
original value.
.PP
If the \fB-s\fR option is not selected, \fBchsh\fR operates in an
interactive fashion, prompting the user with the current login shell. Enter
the new value to change the shell, or leave the line blank to use the
current one. The current shell is displayed between a pair of \fB[ ]\fR
marks.
.SH FILES
\fI/etc/passwd\fR	\- user account information
.br
\fI/etc/shells\fR	\- list of valid login shells
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR chfn (1),
.BR passwd (5)
.SH AUTHOR
Julianne Frances Haugh <jockgrrl@ix.netcom.com>
