.\" Copyright 1989 - 1994, Julianne Frances Haugh
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of Julianne F. Haugh nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY JULIE HAUGH AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL JULIE HAUGH OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	$Id: faillog.8,v 1.6 1999/07/09 18:02:43 marekm Exp $
.\"
.TH FAILLOG 8
.SH NAME
faillog \- examine faillog and set login failure limits
.SH SYNOPSIS
.TP 8
.B faillog
.RB [ -u
.IR login-name ]
.RB [ -a ]
.RB [ -t
.IR days ]
.RB [ -m
.IR max ]
.RB [ -pr ] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBfaillog\fR formats the contents of the failure log,
\fI/var/log/faillog\fR, and maintains failure counts and
limits.
The order of the arguments to \fBfaillog\fR is significant.
Each argument is processed immediately in the order given.
.PP
The \fB-p\fR flag causes failure entries to be printed in UID
order.
Entering \fB-u \fIlogin-name\fR flag will
cause the failure record for \fIlogin-name\fR only to be printed.
Entering \fB-t \fIdays\fR will cause only the
failures more recent than \fIdays\fR to be printed.
The \fB-t\fR flag overrides the use of \fB-u\fR.
The \fB-a\fR flag causes all users to be selected.
When used with the \fB-p\fR flag, this option selects all users
who have ever had a login failure.
It is meaningless with the \fB-r\fR flag.
.PP
The \fB-r\fR flag is used to reset the count of login failures.
Write access to \fI/var/log/faillog\fR is required for
this option.
Entering \fB-u \fIlogin-name\fR will cause only the failure count
for \fIlogin-name\fR to be reset.
.PP
The \fB-m\fR flag is used to set the maximum number of login
failures before the account is disabled.
Write access to \fI/var/log/faillog\fR is required for this
option.
Entering \fB-m \fImax\fR will cause all accounts to be disabled
after \fImax\fR failed logins occur.
This may be modified with \fB-u \fIlogin-name\fR to limit this
function to \fIlogin-name\fR only.
Selecting a \fImax\fR value of 0 has the effect of not placing
a limit on the number of failed logins.
The maximum failure count
should always be 0 for \fBroot\fR to prevent
a denial of services attack against the system.
.PP
Options may be combined in virtually any fashion.
Each \fB-p\fR, \fB-r\fR, and \fB-m\fR option will cause
immediate execution using any \fB-u\fR or \fB-t\fR modifier.
.SH CAVEATS
\fBfaillog\fR only prints out users with no successful login since
the last failure.
To print out a user who has had a successful login since their last
failure, you must explicitly request the user with the \fB-u\fR flag,
or print out all users with the \fB-a\fR flag.
.PP
Some systems may replace /var/log with /var/adm or /usr/adm.
.SH FILES
/var/log/faillog \- failure logging file
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR login (1),
.BR faillog (5)
.SH AUTHOR
Julianne Frances Haugh (jfh@bga.com)
