.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "GPASSWD" "1" "09/30/2005" "User Commands" "User Commands"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
gpasswd \- administer the /etc/group file
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.HP 8
\fBgpasswd\fR \fIgroup\fR
.HP 8
\fBgpasswd\fR \-a\ \fIuser\fR \fIgroup\fR
.HP 8
\fBgpasswd\fR \-d\ \fIuser\fR \fIgroup\fR
.HP 8
\fBgpasswd\fR \-R\ \fIgroup\fR
.HP 8
\fBgpasswd\fR \-r\ \fIgroup\fR
.HP 8
\fBgpasswd\fR [\-A\ \fIuser,\fR...] [\-M\ \fIuser,\fR...] \fIgroup\fR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
\fBgpasswd\fR
is used to administer the
\fI/etc/group\fR
file (and
\fI/etc/gshadow\fR
file if compiled with SHADOWGRP defined). Every group can have administrators, members and a password. System administrator can use
\fB\-A\fR
option to define group administrator(s) and
\fB\-M\fR
option to define members and has all rights of group administrators and members.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
Group administrator can add and delete users using
\fB\-a\fR
and
\fB\-d\fR
options respectively. Administrators can use
\fB\-r\fR
option to remove group password. When no password is set only group members can use
\fBnewgrp\fR
to join the group. Option
\fB\-R\fR
disables access via a password to the group through
\fBnewgrp\fR
command (however members will still be able to switch to this group).
.PP
\fBgpasswd\fR
called by a group administrator with group name only prompts for the group password. If password is set the members can still
\fBnewgrp\fR(1)
without a password, non\-members must supply the password.
.SH "FILES"
.TP
\fI/etc/group\fR
group account information
.TP
\fI/etc/gshadow\fR
secure group account information
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
\fBnewgrp\fR(1),
\fBgshadow\fR(5),
\fBgroupadd\fR(8),
\fBgroupdel\fR(8),
\fBgroupmod\fR(8),
\fBgrpck\fR(8),
\fBgroup\fR(5).
.SH "AUTHOR"
.PP
Rafal Maszkowski <rzm@pdi.net>
