.\"$Id: groupadd.8,v 1.21 2004/11/04 03:06:31 kloczek Exp $
.\" Copyright 1991, Julianne Frances Haugh
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of Julianne F. Haugh nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY JULIE HAUGH AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL JULIE HAUGH OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.TH GROUPADD 8
.SH NAME
groupadd \- Create a new group
.SH SYNOPSIS
.TP 6
\fBgroupadd\fR [\fB-g\fI gid \fR[\fB-o\fR]] [\fB-f\fR] \fIgroup\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBgroupadd\fR command creates a new group account using the values
specified on the command line and the default values from the system. The
new group will be entered into the system files as needed.
.SH OPTIONS
The options which apply to the \fBgroupadd\fR command are:
.IP "\fB-f\fR"
This option causes to just exit with success status if the specified
group already exists. With \fB-g\fR, if specified gid already exists,
other (unique) gid is chosen (i.e. \fB-g\fR is turned off).
.IP "\fB-g\fR \fIgid\fR"
The numerical value of the group's ID. This value must be unique, unless the
\fB-o\fR option is used. The value must be non-negative. The default is to
use the smallest ID value greater than 999 and greater than every other
group. Values between 0 and 999 are typically reserved for system accounts.
.SH FILES
\fI/etc/group\fR	\- group account information
.br
\fI/etc/gshadow\fR	\- secure group account information
.SH EXIT VALUES
.TP 2
The \fBgroupadd\fR command exits with the following values:
.br
\fB0\fR	\- success
.br
\fB2\fR	\- invalid command syntax
.br
\fB3\fR	\- invalid argument to option
.br
\fB4\fR	\- gid not unique (when -o not used)
.br
\fB9\fR	\- group name not unique
.br
\fB10\fR	\- can't update group file
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR chfn (1),
.BR chsh (1),
.BR passwd (1),
.BR groupdel (8),
.BR groupmod (8),
.BR useradd (8),
.BR userdel (8),
.BR usermod (8)
.SH AUTHOR
Julianne Frances Haugh (jockgrrl@ix.netcom.com)
