.\"$Id: groupmod.8,v 1.20 2005/04/12 17:55:55 kloczek Exp $
.\" Copyright 1991, Julianne Frances Haugh
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of Julianne F. Haugh nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY JULIE HAUGH AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL JULIE HAUGH OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.TH GROUPMOD 8
.SH NAME
groupmod \- modify a group
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBgroupmod\fR [\fB\-g\fR \fIgid\fR [\fB\-o\fR]] [\fB\-n\fR \fInew_group_name\fR]
\fIgroup\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBgroupmod\fR command modifies the system account files to reflect the
changes that are specified on the command line.
.SH OPTIONS
The options which apply to the \fBgroupmod\fR command are:
.IP "\fB\-g\fR \fIgid\fR"
The numerical value of the group's ID. This value must be unique, unless the
\fB\-o\fR option is used. The value must be non\-negative. Values between 0
and 999 are typically reserved for system groups. Any files which the old
group ID is the file group ID must have the file group ID changed manually.
.IP "\fB\-n\fR \fInew_group_name\fR"
The name of the group will be changed from \fIgroup\fR to \fInew_group_name\fR.
.SH FILES
\fI/etc/group\fR	\- group account information
.br
\fI/etc/gshadow\fR	\- secure group information
.SH EXIT VALUES
.TP 2
The \fBgroupmod\fR command exits with the following values:
.br
\fB0\fR	\- success
.br
\fB2\fR	\- bad command syntax
.br
\fB3\fR	\- invalid argument to option
.br
\fB4\fR	\- gid already in use (and no \-o)
.br
\fB6\fR	\- specified group doesn't exist
.br
\fB9\fR	\- group name already in use
.br
\fB10\fR	\- can't update group file
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR chfn (1),
.BR chsh (1),
.BR passwd (1),
.BR groupadd (8),
.BR groupdel (8),
.BR useradd (8),
.BR userdel (8),
.BR usermod (8)
.SH AUTHOR
Julianne Frances Haugh (jockgrrl@ix.netcom.com)
