.\"$Id: gshadow.5,v 1.2 2005/04/02 16:10:23 kloczek Exp $
.\" Copyright 2005, Nicolas FRANCOIS
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of Nicolas FRANCOIS nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY NICOLAS FRANCOIS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS''
.\" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL NICOLAS FRANCOIS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
.\" THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.TH GSHADOW 5
.SH NAME
gshadow \- shadowed group file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I gshadow
contains the shadowed information for group accounts.
It contains lines with the folowing colon\-separated fields:
.IP "" .5i
Group name
.IP "" .5i
Encrypted password
.IP "" .5i
Comma\-separated list of group administrators
.IP "" .5i
Comma\-separated list of group members.
.PP
The group name and password fields must be filled.
The encryped password consists of 13 characters from the 64\-character
alphabet a thru z, A thru Z, 0 thru 9, \. and /.
Refer to \fBcrypt\fR(3) for details on how this string is interpreted.
If the password field contains some string that is not valid result
of \fBcrypt\fR(3), for instance ! or *, the user will not be able to use
a unix password to log in, subject to \fBpam\fR(7).
.PP
This information supercedes any password present in \fI/etc/group\fR.
.PP
This file must not be readable by regular users if password
security is to be maintained.
.SH FILES
\fI/etc/group\fR	\- user group file
.br
\fI/etc/gshadow\fR	\- shadowed group file
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR group (5),
.BR gpasswd (5),
.BR newgrp (5)
.SH AUTHOR
Nicolas FRANCOIS
