.\"$Id: lastlog.8,v 1.15 2004/08/04 13:02:23 kloczek Exp $
.\" Copyright 1992, Phillip Street and Julianne Frances Haugh
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of Julianne F. Haugh nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY JULIE HAUGH AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL JULIE HAUGH OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"	@(#)lastlog.8	3.3	08:24:58	29 Sep 1993 (National Guard Release)
.TH LASTLOG 8
.SH NAME
lastlog \- examine lastlog file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.TP 8
\fBlastlog\fR [(\fB-u\fR|\fB--user\fR) \fIlogin\fR]
[(\fB-t\fR|\fB--time\fR) \fIdays\fR] [(\fB-h\fR|\fB--help\fR) ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBlastlog\fR formats and prints the contents of the last login log
\fI/var/log/lastlog\fR file . The \fBlogin-name\fR, \fBport\fR, and \fBlast
login time\fR will be printed. The default (no flags) causes lastlog entries
to be printed, sorted by their order in \fB/etc/passwd\fR.
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR print a one-line help message and exit.
.TP
\fB-t\fR, \fB--time\fR \fIdays\fR will cause only the lastlogins more recent
\than fIdays\fR to be printed
.TP
\fB-u\fR, \fB--user\fR \fIlogin-name\fR will cause the lastlog record for
\fIlogin-name\fR only to be printed
.TP
The \fB-t\fR flag overrides the use of \fB-u\fR.
.PP
If the user has never logged in the message \fB"**Never logged in**"\fR will
be displayed instead of the port and time.
.SH FILES
\fI/var/log/lastlog\fR \	- lastlog logging file
.SH CAVEATS
Large gaps in uid numbers will cause the lastlog program to run longer with
no output to the screen (i.e. if mmdf=800 and last uid=170, program will
appear to hang as it processes uid 171-799).
.SH AUTHORS
Julianne Frances Haugh (jockgrrl@ix.netcom.com)
.BR
Phillip Street
