.\" Copyright 1991, Julianne Frances Haugh
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of Julianne F. Haugh nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY JULIE HAUGH AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL JULIE HAUGH OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	$Id: mkpasswd.8,v 1.4 1998/12/28 20:35:15 marekm Exp $
.\"
.TH MKPASSWD 1
.SH NAME
mkpasswd \- Update passwd and group database files
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmkpasswd\fR [\fB-fvgps\fR] \fIfile\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mkpasswd
reads the file in the format given by the flags and converts it to the
corresponding database file format.
These database files are used to improve access performance on systems
with large numbers of users.
The output files will be named \fIfile\fR.dir and \fIfile\fR.pag.
.PP
The \fB-f\fR option causes \fBmkpasswd\fR to ignore any existing output
files and overwrite them.
Normally \fBmkpasswd\fR complains about existing output files and quits.
.PP
The \fB-v\fR option causes \fBmkpasswd\fR to output information about
each record as it is converted, with a final message at the very end.
.PP
The \fB-g\fR option treats the input file as though it were in
\fI/etc/group\fR file format.
When combined with the \fB-s\fR option, the \fI/etc/gshadow\fR file
format is used instead.
.PP
The \fB-p\fR option treats the input file as though it were in
\fI/etc/passwd\fR file format.
This is the default.
When combined with the \fB-s\fR option, the \fI/etc/shadow\fR file
format is used instead.
.SH CAVEATS
The use of more than one database file is limited to systems which
include the NDBM database library and therefore may not be available
on every system.
.SH NOTE
Since most commands are capable of updating the database files as
changes are made, this command need only be used when re-creating a
deleted or corrupted database file.
.SH FILES
/etc/passwd \- user account information
.br
/etc/shadow \- shadow user information
.br
/etc/group \- group information
.br
/etc/gshadow \- shadow group information
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR passwd (5),
.BR group (5),
.BR shadow (5)
.SH AUTHOR
Julianne Frances Haugh (jfh@bga.com)
