.\" Copyright 1991 - 1994, Julianne Frances Haugh
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of Julianne F. Haugh nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY JULIE HAUGH AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL JULIE HAUGH OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	$Id: newusers.8,v 1.4 1998/12/28 20:35:17 marekm Exp $
.\"
.TH NEWUSERS 8
.SH NAME
\fBnewusers\fR - update and create new users in batch
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBnewusers\fR [\fI new_users \fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBnewusers\fR reads a file of user name and cleartext password pairs
and uses this information to update a group of existing users or to
create new users.
Each line is in the same format as the standard password file (see
\fBpasswd\fR(5)) with the following exceptions.
.IP "\fIpw_passwd\fR" 10
This field will be encrypted and used as the new value
of the encrpted password.
.IP "\fIpw_age\fR"
This field will be ignored for shadow passwords if the user already
exists.
.IP "\fIpw_gid\fR"
This field may be the name of an existing group, in which case the
named user will be added as a member.  If a non-existent numerical
group is given, a new group will be created having this number.
.IP "\fIpw_dir\fR"
This field will be checked for existence as a directory and a new
directory with the same name will be created if it does not already exist.
The ownership of the directory will be set to be that of the user
being created or updated.
.PP
This command is intended to be used in a large system environment where
many accounts are updated at a single time.
.SH CAVEATS
.\" The \fImkpasswd\fR command must be executed afterwards to update the
.\" DBM password files.
The input file must be protected since it contains unencrypted passwords.
.SH SEE ALSO
.\" mkpasswd(8), passwd(1), useradd(1)
.BR passwd (1),
.BR useradd (8)
.SH AUTHOR
Julianne Frances Haugh (jfh@bga.com)
