.\" $Id: porttime.5,v 1.11 2005/04/05 18:47:50 kloczek Exp $
.\" Copyright 1989 - 1990, Julianne Frances Haugh
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of Julianne F. Haugh nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY JULIE HAUGH AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL JULIE HAUGH OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.TH PORTTIME 5
.SH NAME
porttime \- port access time file
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIporttime\fR contains a list of tty devices, user names, and permitted
login times.
.PP
Each entry consists of three colon separated fields. The first field is a
comma separated list of tty devices, or an asterisk to indicate that all tty
devices are matched by this entry. The second field is a comma separated
list of user names, or an asterisk to indicated that all user names are
matched by this entry. The third field is a comma separated list of
permitted access times.
.PP
Each access time entry consists of zero or more days of the week,
abbreviated \fBSu\fR, \fBMo\fR, \fBTu\fR, \fBWe\fR, \fBTh\fR,
\fBFr\fR, and \fBSa\fR, followed by a pair of times separated by
a hyphen. The abbreviation \fBWk\fR may be used to represent Monday thru
Friday, and \fBAl\fR may be used to indicate every day. If no days are
given, \fBAl\fR is assumed.
.SH EXAMPLES
The following entry allows access to user \fBjfh\fR on every port
during weekdays from 9am to 5pm.
.br
.sp 1
	*:jfh:Wk0900\-1700
.br
.sp 1
The following entries allow access only to the users \fBroot\fR and
\fBoper\fR on /dev/console at any time. This illustrates how the
\fI/etc/porttime\fR file is an ordered list of access times. Any other user
would match the second entry which does not permit access at any time.
.br
.sp 1
	console:root,oper:Al0000\-2400
.br
	console:*:
.br
.sp 1
The following entry allows access for the user \fBgames\fR on any port
during non\-working hours.
.br
.sp 1
	*:games:Wk1700\-0900,SaSu0000\-2400
.br
.sp 1
.SH FILES
\fI/etc/porttime\fR	\- file containing port access times
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR login (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Julianne Frances Haugh (jockgrrl@ix.netcom.com)
