.\" Copyright 1992, Julianne Frances Haugh
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of Julianne F. Haugh nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY JULIE HAUGH AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL JULIE HAUGH OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	$Id: pwauth.8,v 1.4 1998/12/28 20:35:22 marekm Exp $
.\"
.TH PWAUTH 8
.SH NAME
pwauth \- administrator defined password authentication
.SH DESCRIPTION
The system administrator is able to define a list of programs which
are used to validate a user's identity.
These programs are given in place of the encrypted password
information which is present in either the \fI/etc/passwd\fR or
\fI/etc/shadow\fR files.
The utilities which administer user accounts examine the encrypted
password field and determine if the user has an administrator defined
authentication program.
The \fBpw_auth\fR function will be invoked whenever one of these
administration programs determines that a user which is being altered
has authentication programs defined.
.PP
The initial entry is created with the \fBuseradd\fR command.
Alterations, such as changing authentication information or deleting
the user account, will cause the \fBpw_auth\fR function to be invoked.
This keeps the authentication information up to date for each user
account.
.PP
The authentication programs do not create the actual login or network
sessions. 
The exit code from the authentication program is taken as an
indication that the action is to be permitted.
The calling process must have the appropriate priviledges to create
the login or network session itself.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR login (1),
.BR passwd (1),
.BR su (1),
.BR useradd (8),
.BR userdel (8),
.BR usermod (8),
.BR pw_auth (3)
.SH AUTHOR
Julianne Frances Haugh (jfh@bga.com)
