.\" Copyright 1989 - 1992, Julianne Frances Haugh
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of Julianne F. Haugh nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY JULIE HAUGH AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL JULIE HAUGH OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	$Id: sulogin.8,v 1.6 2000/10/16 21:34:40 kloczek Exp $
.\"
.TH SULOGIN 8
.SH NAME
sulogin \- Single-user login
.SH SYNTAX
\fBsulogin\fR [\fItty-device\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sulogin
is invoked by \fBinit\fR prior to allowing the user
access to the system when in single user mode.
This feature may only be available on certain systems where
\fBinit\fR has been modified accordingly, or where the
\fB/etc/inittab\fR has an entry for a single user login.
.PP
The user is prompted
.IP "" .5i
Type control-d to proceed with normal startup,
.br
(or give root password for system maintenance):
.PP
Input and output will be performed with the standard file
descriptors unless the optional device name argument is provided.
.PP
If the user enters the correct root password, a login session
is initiated.
When \fBEOF\fR is pressed instead, the system enters multi-user
mode.
.PP
After the user exits the single-user shell, or presses \fBEOF\fR,
the system begins the initialization process required to enter
multi-user mode.
.SH CAVEATS
.PP
This command can only be used if \fBinit\fR has been modified to call
\fBsulogin\fR instead of \fB/bin/sh\fR,
or if the user has set the \fIinittab\fR to support a single user
login.
For example, the line
.br
.sp 1
co:s:respawn:/etc/sulogin /dev/console
.br
.sp 1
should execute the sulogin command in single user mode.
.PP
As complete an environment as possible is created.
However, various devices may be unmounted or uninitialized and many 
of the user commands may be unavailable or nonfunctional as a result.
.SH FILES
/etc/passwd \- user account information
.br
/etc/shadow \- encrypted passwords and age information
.br
/.profile \- initialization script for single user shell
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR login (1),
.BR init (8),
.BR sh (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Julianne Frances Haugh (jockgrrl@ix.netcom.com)
