.\"$Id: useradd.8,v 1.19 2004/10/11 05:09:34 kloczek Exp $
.\" Copyright 1991 - 1994, Julianne Frances Haugh
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of Julianne F. Haugh nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY JULIE HAUGH AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL JULIE HAUGH OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.TH USERADD 8
.SH NAME
useradd \- Create a new user or update default new user information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.TP 8
\fBuseradd\fR [\fB-c\fR \fIcomment\fR] [\fB-d\fR \fIhome_dir\fR]
.br
[\fB-e\fR \fIexpire_date\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIinactive_time\fR]
.br
[\fB-g\fR \fIinitial_group\fR] [\fB-G\fR \fIgroup\fR[,...]]
.br
[[\fB-M\fR] \fB-m\fR [\fB-k\fR \fIskeleton_dir\fR]] [\fB-o\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fIpasswd\fR]
.br
[\fB-s\fR \fIshell\fR] [\fB-u\fR \fIuid\fR] \fIlogin\fR
.TP 8
\fBuseradd\fR \fB-D\fR [\fB-g\fI default_group\fR] [\fB-b\fI default_home\fR]
.br
[\fB-e\fI default_expire_date\fR] [\fB-f\fI default_inactive\fR]
.br
[\fB-s\fI default_shell\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS Creating New Users
When invoked without the \fB-D\fR option, the \fBuseradd\fR command creates
a new user account using the values specified on the command line and the
default values from the system. Depending on command line options, the
useradd command will update system files and may also create the new user's
home directory and copy initial files. The options which apply to the
\fBuseradd\fR command are:
.IP "\fB-c\fR \fIcomment\fR"
The new user's password file comment field.
.IP "\fB-d\fR \fIhome_dir\fR"
The new user will be created using \fIhome_dir\fR as the value for the
user's login directory. The default is to append the \fIlogin\fR name to
\fIdefault_home\fR and use that as the login directory name.
.IP "\fB-e\fR \fIexpire_date\fR"
The date on which the user account will be disabled. The date is specified
in the format \fIYYYY-MM-DD\fR.
.IP "\fB-f\fR \fIinactive_days\fR"
The number of days after a password expires until the account is permanently
disabled. A value of 0 disables the account as soon as the password has
expired, and a value of -1 disables the feature. The default value is -1.
.IP "\fB-g\fR \fIinitial_group\fR"
The group name or number of the user's initial login group. The group name
must exist.  A group number must refer to an already existing group. The
default group number is 1 or whatever is specified in
\fI/etc/default/useradd\fR.
.IP "\fB-G\fR \fIgroup,[...]\fR"
A list of supplementary groups which the user is also a member of. Each
group is separated from the next by a comma, with no intervening whitespace.
The groups are subject to the same restrictions as the group given with the
\fB-g\fR option. The default is for the user to belong only to the initial
group.
.IP \fB-M\fR
RedHat added the CREATE_HOME option in login.defs in their version of
shadow-utils (which makes -m the default, with new -M option to turn it
off). Unfortunately, this changes the way useradd works (it can be run by
scripts expecting some standard behaviour), compared to other Unices and
other Linux distributions, and also adds a lot of confusion.
.IP \fB-m\fR
The user's home directory will be created if it does not exist. The files
contained in \fIskeleton_dir\fR will be copied to the home directory if the
\fB-k\fR option is used, otherwise the files contained in \fI/etc/skel\fR
will be used instead. Any directories contained in \fIskeleton_dir\fR or
\fI/etc/skel\fR will be created in the user's home directory as well. The
\fB-k\fR option is only valid in conjunction with the \fB-m\fR option. The
default is to not create the directory and to not copy any files.
.IP "\fB-o\fR"
Allow create user with duplicate (non-unique) UID.
.IP "\fB-p \fIpasswd\fR"
The encrypted password, as returned by \fBcrypt\fR(3). The default is to
disable the account.
.IP "\fB-s\fR \fIshell\fR"
The name of the user's login shell. The default is to leave this field
blank, which causes the system to select the default login shell.
.IP "\fB-u \fIuid\fR"
The numerical value of the user's ID. This value must be unique, unless the
\fI-o\fR option is used. The value must be non-negative. The default is to
use the smallest ID value greater than 99 and greater than every other user.
Values between 0 and 99 are typically reserved for system accounts.
.SS Changing the default values
When invoked with the \fB-D\fR option, \fBuseradd\fR will either display the
current default values, or update the default values from the command line.
The valid options are
.IP "\fB-b\fR \fIdefault_home\fR"
The initial path prefix for a new user's home directory. The user's name
will be affixed to the end of \fIdefault_home\fR to create the new directory
name if the \fB-d\fI option is not used when creating a new account.
.IP "\fB-e\fR \fIdefault_expire_date\fR"
The date on which the user account is disabled.
.IP "\fB-f\fR \fIdefault_inactive\fR"
The number of days after a password has expired before the account will be
disabled.
.IP "\fB-g\fR \fIdefault_group\fR"
The group name or ID for a new user's initial group. The named group must
exist, and a numerical group ID must have an existing entry .
.IP "\fB-s\fR \fIdefault_shell\fR"
The name of the new user's login shell. The named program will be used for
all future new user accounts.
.PP
If no options are specified, \fBuseradd\fR displays the current default
values.
.SH NOTES
The system administrator is responsible for placing the default user files
in the \fI/etc/skel/\fR directory.
.SH CAVEATS
You may not add a user to an NIS group. This must be performed on the NIS
server.
.SH FILES
\fI/etc/passwd\fR			\- user account information
.br
\fI/etc/shadow\fR			\- secure user account information
.br
\fI/etc/group\fR			\- group information
.br
\fI/etc/default/useradd\fR	\- default information
.br
\fI/etc/skel/\fR			\- directory containing default files
.SH EXIT VALUES
.TP 2
The \fBuseadd\fR command exits with the following values:
.br
\fB0\fR	\- success
.br
\fB1\fR	\- can't update password file
.br
\fB2\fR	\- invalid command syntax
.br
\fB3\fR	\- invalid argument to option
.br
\fB4\fR	\- uid already in use (and no -o)
.br
\fB6\fR	\- specified group doesn't exist
.br
\fB9\fR	\- username already in use
.br
\fB10\fR	\- can't update group file
.br
\fB12\fR	\- can't create home directory
.br
\fB13\fR	\- can't create mail spool
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR chfn (1),
.BR chsh (1),
.BR passwd (1),
.BR crypt (3),
.BR groupadd (8),
.BR groupdel (8),
.BR groupmod (8),
.BR userdel (8),
.BR usermod (8)
.SH AUTHOR
Julianne Frances Haugh (jockgrrl@ix.netcom.com)
