.\"$Id: userdel.8,v 1.14 2005/04/12 17:55:55 kloczek Exp $
.\" Copyright 1991 - 1994, Julianne Frances Haugh
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of Julianne F. Haugh nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY JULIE HAUGH AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL JULIE HAUGH OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.TH USERDEL 8
.SH NAME
userdel \- Delete a user account and related files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B userdel
[\fB\-r\fR]
.I login
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBuserdel\fR command modifies the system account files, deleting all
entries that refer to \fIlogin\fR. The named user must exist.
.SH OPTIONS
The options which apply to the \fBuserdel\fR command are:
.IP \fB\-r\fR
Files in the user's home directory will be removed along with the home
directory itself and the user's mail spool. Files located in other file
systems will have to be searched for and deleted manually.
.SH FILES
\fI/etc/passwd\fR	\- user account information
.br
\fI/etc/shadow\fR	\- secure user account information
.br
\fI/etc/group\fR	\- group account information
.SH EXIT VALUES
.TP 2
The \fBuserdel\fR command exits with the following values:
.br
\fB0\fR	\- success
.br
\fB1\fR	\- can't update password file
.br
\fB2\fR	\- invalid command syntax
.br
\fB6\fR	\- specified user doesn't exist
.br
\fB8\fR	\- user currently logged in
.br
\fB10\fR	\- can't update group file
.br
\fB12\fR	\- can't remove home directory
.SH CAVEATS
\fBuserdel\fR will not allow you to remove an account if the user is
currently logged in. You must kill any running processes which belong to an
account that you are deleting. You may not remove any NIS attributes on an
NIS client. This must be performed on the NIS server.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR chfn (1),
.BR chsh (1),
.BR passwd (1),
.BR groupadd (8),
.BR groupdel (8),
.BR groupmod (8),
.BR useradd (8),
.BR usermod (8)
.SH AUTHOR
Julianne Frances Haugh (jockgrrl@ix.netcom.com)
