.\" Copyright 1991 \- 1994, Julianne Frances Haugh
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of Julianne F. Haugh nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY JULIE HAUGH AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL JULIE HAUGH OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	$Id: userdel.8,v 1.4 2005/04/05 19:08:54 kloczek Exp $
.\"
.\" Traduzione in italiano a cura di Isabella Ruocco <isacher@nettaxi.com>
.\" luglio 1999
.\"
.TH USERDEL 8
.SH NOME
userdel \- Rimuove l'account di un utente ed i file relativi
.SH SINTASSI
.B userdel
[\fB\-r\fR]
.I login
.SH DESCRIZIONE
Il comando \fBuserdel\fR modifica i file di account del sistema, rimuovendo
tutte le voci che si riferiscono a \fIlogin\fR.
L'utente nominato deve esistere.
.IP \fB\-r\fR
I file nella home directory dell'utente verranno rimossi insieme alla home
directory stessa.
I file collocati in altri file system dovranno essere ricercati e rimossi
manualmente.
.SH FILE
\fI/etc/passwd\fR \- informazioni sugli account di utenti
.br
\fI/etc/shadow\fR \- informazioni sicure sugli account di utenti
.br
\fI/etc/group\fR \- informazioni sui gruppi
.SH CAVEAT
\fBuserdel\fR non permetterà di rimuovere alcun account se l'utente è
attualmente connesso.
Occorre uccidere qualunque processo in esecuzione che appartenga ad un account
che si sta rimuovendo.
Non è possibile rimuovere nessun attributo NIS su un client NIS.
Questo deve essere fatto sul server NIS.
.SH VEDERE ANCHE
.BR chfn (1),
.BR chsh (1),
.BR groupadd (8),
.BR groupdel (8),
.BR groupmod (8),
.BR passwd (1),
.BR useradd (8),
.BR usermod (8)
.SH AUTORE
Julianne Frances Haugh (jfh@tab.com)
