.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     from: @(#)vipw.8	6.7 (Berkeley) 3/16/91
.\"	$Id: vipw.8,v 1.1 2005/12/13 11:34:59 kloczek Exp $
.\"
.\"
.\" Translated into Spanish on Fri Aug 28 1998 by Gerardo Aburruzaga
.\" García <gerado@cica.es>
.\"
.Dd 7 Julio 1996
.Dt VIPW 8
.Os Util-Linux 2.6
.Sh NOMBRE
.Nm vipw, vigr
.Nd editan los ficheros de cuentas y grupos
.Sh SINOPSIS
.Nm vipw
.Op -V
.Op --version

.Nm vigr
.Op -V
.Op --version
.Sh DESCRIPCIÓN
.Nm Vipw
edita el fichero de cuentas tras establecer los bloqueos apropiados, y
hace cualquier procesado que sea necesario después de que el fichero
de cuentas se desbloquee.
Si el fichero de cuentas ya está bloqueado para la edición por parte
de otro usuario, 
.Nm vipw
le pedirá que lo intente de nuevo más tarde. El editor predeterminado
para 
.Nm vipw
suele ser, como indica su nombre,
.Xr vi 1 .
.br
.Nm Vigr
edita el fichero de grupos de la misma manera que vipw.
.Sh ENTORNO
Si la siguiente variable de entorno existe, será utilizada por
.Nm vipw :
.Bl -tag -width EDITOR
.It Ev EDITOR
El editor especificado por la cadena
.Ev EDITOR
será llamado en vez del predeterminado
.Xr vi 1 .
.El
.Sh VÉASE TAMBIÉN
.Xr passwd 1 ,
.Xr vi 1 ,
.Xr passwd 5
.Sh HISTORIA
La orden
.Nm vipw
apareció en
.Bx 4.0 .
.br
La orden
.Nm vigr
apareció en
Util-Linux 2.6.
