.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "VIPW" "8" "12/07/2005" "Commandes pour la gestion du système" "Commandes pour la gestion du s"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
vipw, vigr \- Éditer les fichiers passwd, group, shadow ou gshadow
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.HP 5
\fBvipw\fR [options]
.HP 5
\fBvigr\fR [options]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
\fBvipw\fR
and
\fBvigr\fR
will edit the files
\fI/etc/passwd\fR
and
\fI/etc/group\fR, respectively. With the
\fB\-s\fR
flag, they will edit the shadow versions of those files,
\fI/etc/shadow\fR
and
\fI/etc/gshadow\fR, respectively. The programs will set the appropriate locks to prevent file corruption. When looking for an editor, the programs will first try the environment variable
\fB$VISUAL\fR, then the environment variable
\fB$EDITOR\fR, and finally the default editor,
\fBvi\fR(1).
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
The options which apply to the
\fBvipw\fR
and
\fBvigr\fR
commands are:
.TP
\fB\-g\fR, \fB\-\-group\fR
Edit group database.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Affiche un message d'aide et quitte.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-passwd\fR
Edit passwd database.
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Quiet mode database.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-shadow\fR
Edit shadow or gshadow database.
.SH "FICHIERS"
.TP
\fI/etc/group\fR
informations sur les groupes
.TP
\fI/etc/gshadow\fR
informations cachées sur les groupes
.TP
\fI/etc/passwd\fR
informations sur les comptes des utilisateurs
.TP
\fI/etc/shadow\fR
informations sécurisées sur les comptes utilisateurs
.SH "VOIR AUSSI"
.PP
\fBvi\fR(1),
\fBgroup\fR(5),
\fBgshadow\fR(5)\fBpasswd\fR(5),
\fBshadow\fR(5).
