.\" $Id$
.\" Copyright 1990 - 1994 Julianne Frances Haugh
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of Julianne F. Haugh nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY JULIE HAUGH AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL JULIE HAUGH OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.TH CHFN 1
.SH NAZWA
chfn \- zmiana rzeczywistej nazwy użytkownika i informacji o nim
.SH SKŁADNIA
.TP 5
\fBchfn\fR
[\fB\-f\fR \fIpełna_nazwa\fR] [\fB\-r\fR \fInr_pokoju\fR]
.br
[\fB\-w\fR \fItel_służb\fR] [\fB\-h\fR \fItel_dom\fR] [\fB\-o\fR \fIinne\fR]
[\fIużytkownik\fR]
.SH OPIS
\fBchfn\fR zmienia pełną nazwę (imię i nazwisko), telefon służbowy i domowy
dla danego konta użytkownika. Informacja ta jest zwykle wypisywana przez
\fBfinger\fR(1) i podobne mu programy.
Zwykły użytkownik może zmieniać wyłącznie pola opisujące własne konto.
Tylko superużytkownik może zmieniać pola dla dowolnego konta.
Również tylko superużytkownik może posłużyć się opcją \fB\-o\fR by zmienić
niezdefiniowane części pola GECOS.
.PP
Jedynym ograniczeniem nakładanym na zawartość pól jest zakaz używania w nich
znaków sterujących oraz przecinka, dwukropka i znaku równości.
Pola \fIinne\fR (other) nie obowiązuje to ograniczenie. Pole to służy do
przechowywania informacji rozliczeniowej używanej przez inne aplikacje.
.PP
Jeśli nie wybrano żadnej z opcji, to \fBchfn\fR działa w trybie interaktywnym,
proponując użytkownikowi wartości bieżące dla każdego z pól. Wprowadzenie
nowej wartości powoduje zmianę wartości pola, a podanie wartości pustej
pozostawia wartość bieżącą.
Bieżąca wartość pola wyświetlana jest w nawiasach \fB[ ]\fR.
Jeśli nie podano żadnej opcji, \fBchfn\fR pyta o konto użytkownika, które ma
podlegać zmianie.
.SH PLIKI
\fI/etc/passwd\fR \- informacja o kontach użytkowników
.SH ZOBACZ TAKŻE
.BR passwd (5)
.SH AUTOR
Julianne Frances Haugh <jockgrrl@ix.netcom.com>
