.\" $Id$
.\" Copyright 1991, Julianne Frances Haugh
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of Julianne F. Haugh nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY JULIE HAUGH AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL JULIE HAUGH OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.TH GROUPADD 8
.SH NAZWA
groupadd \- twórz nową grupę
.SH SKŁADNIA
\fBgroupadd\fR [\fB\-g\fR \fIgid\fR [\fB\-o\fR]] [\fB\-f\fR] \fIgrupa\fR
.SH OPIS
Polecenie \fBgroupadd\fR tworzy nowe konto grupy posługując się
wartościami podanymi w wierszu poleceń i domyślnymi wartościami z systemu.
W razie potrzeby zostanie wprowadzona do systemu nowa grupa.
.SH OPCJE
Polecenie \fBgroupadd\fR posiada następujące opcje:
.TP
.BI \-f
Ta opcja powoduje zakończenie programu ze statusem oznaczającym sukces jeśli
podana groupa już istnieje. Z opcją \fB\-g\fR, jeśli podany gid już istnieje,
wybierany jest inny (unikalny) gid (czyli \fB\-g\fR jest wyłączane).
.TP
.BI \-g " gid"
Numeryczna wartość identyfikatora grupy. Wartość ta musi być niepowtarzalna,
chyba że użyto opcji \fB\-o\fR. Wartość ID grupy nie może być ujemna. Domyślnie
używana jest najmniejsza wartość identyfikatora większa niż 999 a większa niż
jakiejkolwiek innej grupy.
Wartości między 0 a 999 są zwykle zarezerwowane dla kont systemowych.
.SH PLIKI
\fI/etc/group\fR	\- informacja o kontach grup
.br
\fI/etc/gshadow\fR	\- bezpieczna informacja o kontach grup
.SH KOD ZAKOŃCZENIA
.TP 2
Polecenie \fBgroupadd\fR kończy działanie z następującymi wartościami kodów zakończenia:
.br
\fB0\fR	\- powodzenie
.br
\fB2\fR	\- niewłaściwa składnia parametrów polecenia
.br
\fB3\fR	\- niewłaściwe parametry opcji
.br
\fB4\fR	\- uid jest już używany (i nie użyto opcji \-o)
.br
\fB9\fR	\- nazwa groupy nie jest unikalna
.br
\fB10\fR	\- niemożliwa aktualizacja plików grup
.SH ZOBACZ TAKŻE
.BR chfn (1),
.BR chsh (1),
.BR passwd (1),
.BR groupdel (8),
.BR groupmod (8).
.BR useradd (8),
.BR userdel (8),
.BR usermod (8),
.SH AUTOR
Julianne Frances Haugh (jockgrrl@ix.netcom.com)
