.\" $Id: lastlog.8,v 1.14 2005/12/01 20:38:27 kloczek Exp $
.\" Copyright 1992, Phillip Street and Julianne Frances Haugh
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of Julianne F. Haugh nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY JULIE HAUGH AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL JULIE HAUGH OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)lastlog.8	3.3	08:24:58	29 Sep 1993 (National Guard Release)
.TH LASTLOG 8
.SH NAZWA
\fBlastlog\fR \- sprawdź plik ostatnich logowań (lastlog)
.SH SKŁADNIA
.TP 8
\fBlastlog\fR [\fBopcje\fR]
.SH OPIS
\fBlastlog\fR formatuje i wyświetla zawartość dziennika ostatnich logowań
zapisanych w pliku \fI/var/log/lastlog\fR. Wyświetlone zostaną \fBnazwa
użytkownika\fR, \fBport\fR i \fBczas ostatniego logowania\fR. Domyślnie (bez
flag) pozycje pliku wyświetlane są w kolejności w jakiej są w pliku
\fB/etc/passwd\fR.
.SH OPCJE
Polecenie \fBlastlog\fR posiada następujące opcje:
.IP "\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR"
Wyświetla krótką informację o tym jak używać program i kończy pracę.
.IP "\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-time\fR \fIDNI\fR"
Wyświetla tylko ostatnie logowania użytkowników nie starsze niż zadana
ilość \fIDNI\fR.
.IP "\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-user\fR \fILOGIN\fR"
Wyświetla tylko informacji o ostanim logowaniu użytkownika \fILOGIN\fR.
.TP
Opcja \fB\-t\fR przesłania użycie opcji \fB\-u\fR.
.PP
Jeżeli użytkownik nigdy się nie logował to zamiast portu i czasu logowania
zostanie wyświetlony komunikat \fB"**Never logged in**"\fR (nigdy się nie
logował).
.SH PLIKI
\fI/var/log/lastlog\fR \- dziennik ostatnich logowań
.SH PRZESTROGI
Duże luki w numeracji UID powodują, że program będzie pracował dłużej, nie
wyświetlając wyników (np. jeśli mmdf=800, zaś ostatni uid=170, to program
będzie sprawiał wrażenie zawieszonego w trakcie przetwarzania uid 171\-799).
.SH AUTORZY
Julianne Frances Haugh (jockgrrl@ix.netcom.com)
.br
Phillip Street
