.\" Copyright 1991, Julianne Frances Haugh
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"; 中文版版權所有 soloman, Laser www.linuxforum.net 2000
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of Julianne F. Haugh nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY JULIE HAUGH AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL JULIE HAUGH OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.TH CHPASSWD 8
.SH NAME
chpasswd \- 成批更新使用者的口令
.SH 總覽
chpasswd [\-e]
.SH 描述
.B chpasswd
從系統的標準輸入讀入使用者的名稱和口令，
並利用這些信息來更新系統上已存在的使用者的口令。
在沒有用 \-e 這個開關選項的情況下，口令將按明文的形式接收。
如果使用了 \-e 選項，口令將只能以加密的方式傳遞。
每行的具體格式如下所示：
.sp 1
		\fI使用者名\fR：\fI新口令\fR
.sp 1
使用者名必須是系統上已存在的使用者。
輸入的密碼在必要時進行加密處理，
如果口令檔案具有時間特性，則同時更新。
.PP
此命令適用於大型的系統，在此類系統中，
使用者一般都是一次同時生成的，而用 adduser 和
passwd 口令來對其一一進行設置一般說往往比較慢。
.SH 注意事項
.\" The \fBmkpasswd\fR command must be executed afterwards to update the
.\" DBM password files.
.\" This command may be discarded in favor of the newusers(8) command.
因為可以使用檔案重定向進行輸入，
即：chpasswd &lt; user&amp;passwd-filename， 
如果輸入檔案是按非加密方式傳遞的話，請對該檔案進行適當的加密。
.SH 又見
passwd(1),useradd(8),newuser(8)
.SH 作者
Julianne Frances Haugh (jfh@bga.com)

.SH "[中文版維護人]"
.B 所羅門 <solomen@email.com.cn>
.SH "[中文版最新更新]"
2000/11/26
.SH "[中國 Linux 論壇 man 手冊頁翻譯計劃]"
.BI http://cmpp.linuxforum.net

