.\" $Id: chfn.1,v 1.7 2005/12/01 20:38:26 kloczek Exp $
.\" Copyright 1990 - 1994 Julianne Frances Haugh
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of Julianne F. Haugh nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY JULIE HAUGH AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL JULIE HAUGH OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 1997 Kazuyoshi Furutaka
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Fri Feb 14 23:06:00 JST 1997
.\"         by Kazuyoshi Furutaka <furutaka@Flux.tokai.jaeri.go.jp>
.\" Modified Tue 16 Sep 2002 by NAKANO Takeo <nakano@apm.seikei.ac.jp>
.\"
.TH CHFN 1
.SH 名前
chfn \- ユーザの氏名や情報を変更する。
.SH 書式
.TP 5
\fBchfn\fR [\fB\-f\fR \fIfull_name\fR] [\fB\-r\fR \fIroom_no\fR]
.br
[\fB\-w\fR \fIwork_ph\fR] [\fB\-h\fR \fIhome_ph\fR] [\fB\-o\fR \fIother\fR]
[\fIuser\fR]
.SH 説明
\fBchfn\fR は、ユーザのフルネーム・オフィスの部屋番号・内線番号・
自宅の電話番号といったアカウント情報を変更する。
この情報は \fBfinger\fR(1) のようなプログラムによって表示される。
一般ユーザは自分自身のアカウント情報のみを変更できる。
スーパーユーザは全てのアカウントに対して情報を変更できる。
また \fB\-o\fR オプションを用いて
GECOS 欄の未定義部分を変更できるのもスーパーユーザだけである。
.PP
各フィールドに書く内容に関する制限は、
コントロール文字・コンマ・コロン・等号を含んでいてはならない、
ということのみである。
\fIother\fR 欄に対してはこの制限はないので、
他のアプリケーションが用いるアカウンティング情報の記録に利用される。
.PP
いずれのオプションも指定されないと
\fBchfn\fR は対話的に動作する。
全ての欄に対して各々現在の設定値を表示し、新しい値の入力を促す。
新しい値を設定する場合はそれを入力し、
現在の値を使うなら空行のままリターンキーを押せばよい。
現在の値は \fB[ ]\fR 記号の間に表示される。
オプションを指定しなかった場合、
chfn は現在のユーザアカウントに対して動作する。
.SH ファイル
\fI/etc/passwd\fR \- ユーザアカウント情報
.SH 関連項目
.BR passwd (5)
.SH 著者
Julianne Frances Haugh <jockgrrl@ix.netcom.com>
