.\"$Id: chpasswd.8,v 1.4 2003/04/28 02:14:00 kloczek Exp $
.\" Copyright 1991, Julianne Frances Haugh
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of Julianne F. Haugh nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY JULIE HAUGH AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL JULIE HAUGH OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 1997 Kazuyoshi Furutaka
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Fri Feb 14 23:06:00 JST 1997
.\"         by Kazuyoshi Furutaka <furutaka@Flux.tokai.jaeri.go.jp>
.\" Updated Wed Apr 26 18:06:10 JST 2000
.\"         by Kentaro Shirakata <argrath@ub32.org>
.\" Updated & Modified Sat 21 Sep 2002 by NAKANO Takeo <nakano@apm.seikei.ac.jp>
.\"
.TH CHPASSWD 8
.SH 名前
\fBchpasswd\fR \- パスワードファイルをバッチ処理で更新する
.SH 書式
\fBchpasswd\fR [\fB-e\fR]
.SH 説明
\fBchpasswd\fR コマンドは
標準入力からユーザ名とパスワードの組が記されているファイルを読み込み、
その情報を用いて既存のユーザ群のパスワード情報を更新する。
-e オプションがない場合は、パスワードは平文とみなされる。
-e オプションがある場合は、パスワードは暗号化されているとみなされる。
各行の書式は次の通り。
.sp 1
	  \fIuser_name\fR:\fIpassword\fR
.sp 1
指定したユーザは既に存在していなければならない。
与えられたパスワードは必要に応じて暗号化され、
パスワードの有効期限がある場合はそれも更新される。
.PP
このコマンドは、同時に大量のアカウントを作成するような、
大規模なシステム環境で用いるために作られた。
.SH 警告
.\" The \fBmkpasswd\fR command must be executed afterwards to update the
.\" DBM password files.
入力ファイルに暗号化されていないパスワードが記されている場合は、
適切に保護しておかなければならない。
.\" This command may be discarded in favor of the newusers(8) command.
.SH 関連項目
.\" mkpasswd(8), passwd(1), useradd(1)
.BR passwd (1),
.BR newusers (8),
.BR useradd (8)
.SH 著者
Julianne Frances Haugh (jockgrrl@ix.netcom.com)
