.\"$Id: expiry.1,v 1.1 2003/04/28 02:14:00 kloczek Exp $
.\" Copyright 1990 - 1994 Julianne Frances Haugh
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" Modified for expiry by Ben Collins <bcollins@debian.org>, 1999
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of Julianne F. Haugh nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY JULIE HAUGH AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL JULIE HAUGH OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2002 NAKANO Takeo all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Sun 3 Mar 2002 by NAKANO Takeo <nakano@apm.seikei.ac.jp>
.\" Modified Tue 16 Sep 2002 by NAKANO Takeo <nakano@apm.seikei.ac.jp>
.\"
.TH EXPIRY 1
.SH 名前
expiry \- パスワードの期限切れポリシーのチェックと執行
.SH 書式
.TP 6
\fBexpiry\fR [\fB-c\fR] [\fB-f\fR]
.SH 説明
.B expiry
は現在のパスワード期限切れ情報をチェック (\fB-c\fR) し、
必要な場合は変更を強制する (\fB-f\fR)。
このコマンドは通常のユーザコマンドとして呼び出し可能である。
.SH ファイル
\fI/etc/passwd\fR \- ユーザアカウント情報
.br
\fI/etc/shadow\fR \- shadow 化されたユーザアカウント情報
.SH 関連項目
.BR passwd (5),
.BR shadow (5)
.SH 著者
Ben Collins <bcollins@debian.org>
