.\" Copyright 1989 - 1994, John F. Haugh II
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\" This product includes software developed by John F. Haugh, II
.\"      and other contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of John F. Haugh, II nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY JOHN HAUGH AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL JOHN HAUGH OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	$Id: faillog.8,v 1.1 2001/06/16 02:35:46 kloczek Exp $
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 1997 Kazuyoshi Furutaka
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Fri Feb 14 23:06:00 JST 1997
.\"         by Kazuyoshi Furutaka <furutaka@Flux.tokai.jaeri.go.jp>
.\"
.TH FAILLOG 8
.SH 名前
faillog \- faillogを調べ、login失敗の制限を設定する
.SH 書式
/etc/faillog [ -u uid ] [ -a ] [ -t days ] [ -m max ] [ -pr ] 
.SH 説明
\fIfaillog\fRはログインの失敗を記録するログファイル\fI/usr/adm/faillog\fR
の内容を整形し、失敗の回数及びその制限の保守を行なう。
\fIfaillog\fRに与える引数の順序には意味がある。
各引数は与えられた順に直ちに処理される。
.PP
\fB-p\fRフラッグはログイン失敗のエントリをUID順に表示させる。
\fB-u login-name\fRと入力した際は、\fBlogin-name\fRの
ログイン失敗記録のみを表示する。
\fB-t days\fRと入力すると、最近\fBdays\fR日以内のログイン失敗
の記録を表示する。
\fB-t\fRフラッグを用いた際は\fB-u\fRフラッグの働きが抑制される。
\fB-a\fRフラッグを用いると全ユーザに対する記録が表示される。
このフラッグを\fB-p\fRフラッグとともに用いた場合は、これまでにログインに
失敗した事のある全てのユーザが選び出される。
\fB-r\fRフラッグと用いても意味が無い。
.PP
\fB-r\fRフラッグはログイン失敗の回数をリセットする為のものである。
このオプションを用いるには\fI/usr/adm/faillog\fRへの書き込み権が
必要である。
\fB-u login-name\fRと入力した際は、\fBlogin-name\fRの
ログイン失敗回数のみをリセットする。
.PP
\fB-m\fRフラッグは、アカウントが使用不能になる最大のログイン
失敗回数を設定する為に用いる。
このオプションを用いるには\fI/usr/adm/faillog\fRへの書き込み権が
必要である。
\fB-m max\fRと入力した場合、ログイン失敗が\fBmax\fR回に達した後は
全てのアカウントが使用不能になる。
\fB-u login-name\fRとともに用いればこの機能を\fBlogin-name\fRに
のみ作用させる事が出来る。
\fBmax\fRの値を0にするとログインの失敗回数には制限が無くなる。
アタックにより\fBroot\fRがログイン不能となりシステム管理が
出来なくなってしまう事を防ぐ為に、\fBroot\fRに対しては
最大ログイン失敗回数はいつでも必ず0としなくてはならない。
.PP
オプションはどのように組み合わせても良い。
\fB-p\fR、\fB-r\fR及び\fB-m\fRの各オプションは\fB-u\fR又は\fB-t\fR
のいずれと組み合わせても直ちに処理される。
.SH 警告
\fIfaillog\fRは最後に失敗して以来ログインに成功していないユーザのみを
表示する。
ログインに失敗した後に正しくログイン出来たユーザを表示させる為には、
\fB-u\fRフラッグを用いてそのユーザを明示的に指定するか、
\fB-a\fRフラッグを用いて全ユーザを表示させなくてはならない。
.PP
システムによっては、/usr/admの代わりに/var/adm又は/var/logを用いている
こともある。
.SH ファイル
/usr/adm/faillog \- ログイン失敗を記録するファイル
.SH 関連項目
login(1),
faillog(4)
.SH 翻訳者
古高和禎 <furutaka@Flux.tokai.jaeri.go.jp>
