.\"$Id: faillog.5,v 1.4 2003/04/28 02:14:00 kloczek Exp $
.\" Copyright 1989 - 1994, Julianne Frances Haugh
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of Julianne F. Haugh nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY JULIE HAUGH AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL JULIE HAUGH OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 1997 Kazuyoshi Furutaka
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Fri Feb 14 23:06:00 JST 1997
.\"         by Kazuyoshi Furutaka <furutaka@Flux.tokai.jaeri.go.jp>
.\" Modified Tue 18 Sep 2002 by NAKANO Takeo <nakano@apm.seikei.ac.jp>
.\"
.TH FAILLOG 5
.SH 名前
faillog \- ログイン失敗を記録するファイル
.SH 説明
.I faillog
は個々のアカウントに対するログイン失敗回数とその限度を記録する。
ファイルは固定長レコードであり、UID 番号でインデックス付けされている。
各レコードには、最後にログインに成功して以降のログイン失敗回数、
アカウントが使用不能となるまでに許されるログイン失敗回数、
最後にログインに失敗したときの接続デバイス、
最後にログインに失敗した日付、
が記録されている。
.PP
このファイルの構造は以下の通り。
.DS

        struct	faillog {
                short   fail_cnt;
                short   fail_max;
                char    fail_line[12];
                time_t  fail_time;
        };

.DE
.SH ファイル
\fI/var/log/faillog\fR \- ログイン失敗の記録
.SH 関連項目
.BR faillog (8)
.SH 著者
Julianne Frances Haugh (jockgrrl@ix.netcom.com)
