.\"$Id: groups.1,v 1.6 2005/12/01 20:38:26 kloczek Exp $
.\" Copyright 1991 - 1994, Julianne Frances Haugh
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of Julianne F. Haugh nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY JULIE HAUGH AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL JULIE HAUGH OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 2001 Maki KURODA
.\"     all right reserved,
.\" Translated Tue Oct 30 11:58:18 JST 2001
.\" by Maki KURODA <mkuroda@aisys\-jp.com>
.\" Modified Tue 16 Sep 2002 by NAKANO Takeo <nakano@apm.seikei.ac.jp>
.\"
.\"WORD:	concurrent group set	同時所属グループ集合
.\"WORD:	real group ID		実グループ ID
.\"WORD:	effective group ID	実効グループ ID
.\"
.TH GROUPS 1
.SH 名前
groups \- 現在のグループ名の表示
.SH 書式
\fBgroups\fR [\fIuser\fR]
.SH 説明
.B groups
は現在のグループの名前または ID 値を表示する。
ID 値に対応する名前が \fI/etc/group\fR に登録されていなければ、
数値のグループ ID で表示される。
パラメータとして \fIuser\fR を与えると、
指定した \fIuser\fR が所属するグループ名を表示する。
.SH 注意
同時所属グループ集合 (concurrent group set)
をサポートしていないシステムでは、
\fI/etc/group\fR の情報が報告される。
ユーザが現在の実グループ ID や実効グループ ID を変更するには、
\fBnewgrp\fR や \fBsg\fR を使用しなければならない。
.SH ファイル
/etc/group \- グループ情報
.SH 関連項目
.BR newgrp (1),
.BR getuid (2),
.BR getgid (2),
.BR getgroups (2)
.SH 著者
Julianne Frances Haugh <jockgrrl@ix.netcom.com>
