.\"$Id: mkpasswd.8,v 1.6 2005/04/05 19:08:55 kloczek Exp $
.\" Copyright 1991, Julianne Frances Haugh
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of Julianne F. Haugh nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY JULIE HAUGH AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL JULIE HAUGH OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 1997 Kazuyoshi Furutaka
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Fri Feb 14 23:06:00 JST 1997
.\"         by Kazuyoshi Furutaka <furutaka@Flux.tokai.jaeri.go.jp>
.\" Updated & Modified Sat 21 Sep 2002 by NAKANO Takeo <nakano@apm.seikei.ac.jp>
.\"
.TH MKPASSWD 8
.SH 名前
mkpasswd \- passwd と group のデータベースファイルを更新する
.SH 書式
\fBmkpasswd\fR [\fB\-fvgps\fR] \fIfile\fR
.SH 説明
.B mkpasswd
はフラグで与えられた書式にしたがってファイルを読み込み、
それをデータベースファイル形式に変換する。
作成されたデータベースファイルは、
多くのユーザがいるシステムでのアクセス性能を改善するために用いられる。
出力ファイルの名前は
\fIfile\fR.dir および \fIfile\fR.pagとなる。
.PP
\fB\-f\fR オプションを指定すると、
\fBmkpasswd\fR は出力ファイルが存在していても無視して上書きする。
通常は、出力ファイルが既に存在する旨の警告を発して終了する。
.PP
\fB\-v\fR オプションを指定すると、
\fBmkpasswd\fR は変換を行なう毎に各レコードの情報を出力し、
最後に終了メッセージを表示する。
.PP
\fB\-g\fR オプションを指定すると、
入力ファイルが \fI/etc/group\fR
ファイルの書式であるとみなして処理を行なう。
\fB\-s\fR オプションと同時に用いた場合は、
\fI/etc/gshadow\fR ファイルの書式が用いられる。
.PP
\fB\-p\fR オプションを指定すると、
入力ファイルが \fB/etc/passwd\fR
ファイルの書式であるとみなして処理を行う。
これがデフォルトの動作である。
\fB\-s\fR オプションと同時に用いた場合は、
\fI/etc/shadow\fR ファイルの書式が用いられる。
.SH 警告
複数のデータベースファイルを使えるのは、
NDBM データベースライブラリを備えたシステムのみであり、
どんなシステムでも可能なわけではない。
.SH 注意
大抵のコマンドは変更の際にデータベースファイルを更新する機能を備えているので、
このコマンドが必要になるのは、データベースを削除してしまった場合や、
データベースが壊れた場合などに、再生成するときだけである。
.SH ファイル
\fI/etc/passwd\fR \ \- ユーザアカウント情報
.br
\fI/etc/shadow\fR \ \- shadow 化されたユーザ情報
.br
\fI/etc/group\fR \  \- グループ情報
.br
\fI/etc/gshadow\fR \- shadow 化されたグループ情報
.SH 関連項目
.BR group (5),
.BR passwd (5),
.BR shadow (5)
.SH 著者
Julianne Frances Haugh (jockgrrl@ix.netcom.com)
