.\" Copyright 1991 - 1994, Julianne Frances Haugh
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of Julianne F. Haugh nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY JULIE HAUGH AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL JULIE HAUGH OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	$Id: newusers.8,v 1.1 2001/11/16 17:00:48 ankry Exp $
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 1996 HANATAKA Shinya
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Wed Nov 20 17:42:39 JST 1996
.\"         by HANATAKA Shinya
.\"
.TH NEWUSERS 8
.SH 名前
\fBnewusers\fR - ユーザ情報の変更や新規ユーザ作成をまとめて行う
.SH 書式
\fBnewusers\fR [\fI new_users \fR]
.SH 説明
\fBnewusers\fR は、ユーザ名と平文パスワードの対を記したファイルを読み、
その情報をもとに、既存のユーザ情報の変更や、新規ユーザの作成を行う。
このファイルの書式は、下記の点を除き、
標準的なパスワードファイル (\fBpasswd\fR(5) 参照) と同じである。
.IP "\fIpw_passwd\fR" 10
このフィールドが暗号化され、暗号化パスワードとなる。
.IP "\fIpw_age\fR"
ユーザがすでに存在する場合、パスワードを隠すため、このフィールドは無視される。
.IP "\fIpw_gid\fR"
このフィールドに既存のグループを指定した場合は、
ユーザはそのグループに加えられる。
存在しないグループ ID を指定した場合は、
そのグループ ID をもつ新たなグループが作られる。
.IP "\fIpw_dir\fR"
このフィールドで指定したディレクトリがすでに存在するかチェックし、
もし存在しなければ、新たにディレクトリが作られる。
また、このディレクトリは、
新規ユーザ、あるいは情報が変更されたユーザが所有者となる。
.PP
このコマンドは、多くのアカウントが一度に変更されるような
大きなシステム環境で使うためのものである。
.SH 警告
.\" The \fImkpasswd\fR command must be executed afterwards to update the
.\" DBM password files.
入力ファイルには、生のパスワードが含まれるため、扱いに注意すること。
.SH 関連項目
.\" mkpasswd(8), passwd(1), useradd(1)
.BR passwd (1),
.BR useradd (8)
.SH 著者
Julianne Frances Haugh (jockgrrl@ix.netcom.com)


