.\" Copyright 1992, John F. Haugh II
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\" This product includes software developed by John F. Haugh, II
.\"      and other contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of John F. Haugh, II nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY JOHN HAUGH AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL JOHN HAUGH OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	$Id: pwauth.8,v 1.1 2001/06/16 02:35:46 kloczek Exp $
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 1997 Kazuyoshi Furutaka
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Fri Feb 14 23:06:00 JST 1997
.\"         by Kazuyoshi Furutaka <furutaka@Flux.tokai.jaeri.go.jp>
.\"
.TH PWAUTH 8
.SH 名前
pwauth \- 管理者の設定したパスワード認証法
.SH 説明
システムの管理者は、ユーザが本人である事を認証する手段として、
プログラムをいくつか設定しておく事が出来る。
それらのプログラムは\fB/etc/passwd\fRもしくは\fB/etc/shadow\fRファイル中で、
暗号化されたパスワードの代わりとして指定される。
ユーザアカウントを管理するユーティリティは、暗号化されたパスワード欄
を調べ、そのユーザに対してシステム管理者が認証プログラムを設定して
いるかどうかを判断する。
管理プログラムのいずれかが、
これから変更されるユーザに認証プログラムが設定されていると
判断した場合は常に、\fIpw_auth\fR関数が呼び出される。
.PP
ユーザ認証に用いる最初のエントリは\fIuseradd\fRコマンドにより生成される。
認証情報の変更やユーザアカウントを削除する等の変更に際しては
\fIpw_auth\fR関数が呼び出され、
各ユーザアカウントの認証情報が最新の状態に維持される。
.PP
認証プログラム自体は実際のログイン又はネットワークセッションを
生成しない。
認証プログラムの終了コードはログインが許可されたか否かの判断に用いられる。
呼び出したプロセスには、ログインもしくはネットワークセッションを生成
し得る適切な特権がなくてはならない。
.SH 関連項目
login(1), passwd(1), su(1), useradd(1), userdel(1), usermod(1), pwauth(3)
.SH 翻訳者
古高和禎 <furutaka@Flux.tokai.jaeri.go.jp>
