.\" Copyright 1989 - 1993, John F. Haugh II
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\" This product includes software developed by John F. Haugh, II
.\"      and other contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of John F. Haugh, II nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY JOHN HAUGH AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL JOHN HAUGH OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	$Id: pwconv.8,v 1.1 2001/06/16 02:35:46 kloczek Exp $
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 1997 Kazuyoshi Furutaka
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Fri Feb 14 23:06:00 JST 1997
.\"         by Kazuyoshi Furutaka <furutaka@Flux.tokai.jaeri.go.jp>
.\"
.TH PWCONV 8
.SH 名前
pwconv \- shadowパスワードファイルを変換・更新する
.SH 書式
pwconv
.SH 説明
\fIPwconv\fRは古いパスワードファイル情報を新たなshadowパスワードファイルに
コピーし、またオプションの既存のshadowファイルからエントリを付加する。
新しいパスワードファイルは\fBnpasswd\fR、新しいshadowファイルは\fBnshadow\fR
という名前で保存される。
生成される両ファイルの許可モードはともに、所有者のみがreadアクセスを
出来る様に設定される。
既存のshadowファイルのエントリはそのままコピーされる。
System V Release 3.2フォーマットのshadowファイルエントリは
何も言わずSystem V Release 4フォーマットに変換され出力される。
エントリに空白欄がある時は(適当ならば)ディフォルト値が挿入される。
パスワードの期限情報が既に設定されていない場合は、
新たなエントリのパスワード有効期限は10000日後と設定され、
最終更新日はこのプログラムを起動した日付となる。
パスワード欄が空白のエントリはshadowファイルに全くコピーされない。
.SH ファイル
/etc/passwd \- 古い暗号化されたパスワード及びその有効期限
.br
/etc/shadow \- 以前に変換されたshadowパスワードファイル
.br
./npasswd \- 新規作成されるパスワードファイル
.br
./nshadow \- 新規作成されるshadowパスワードファイル
.SH 関連項目
passwd(1),
passwd(4),
shadow(4),
pwunconv(8)
.SH 翻訳者
古高和禎 <furutaka@Flux.tokai.jaeri.go.jp>
