.\" $Id: shadow.3,v 1.7 2005/12/01 20:38:26 kloczek Exp $
.\" Copyright 1989 - 1993, Julianne Frances Haugh
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of Julianne F. Haugh nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY JULIE HAUGH AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL JULIE HAUGH OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 1997 Kazuyoshi Furutaka
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Fri Feb 14 23:06:00 JST 1997
.\"         by Kazuyoshi Furutaka <furutaka@Flux.tokai.jaeri.go.jp>
.\" updated Tue 17 Sep 2002 by NAKANO Takeo <nakano@apm.seikei.ac.jp>
.\"
.TH SHADOW 3
.SH 名前
shadow \- 暗号化されたパスワードファイル用ルーチン
.SH 書式
.B #include <shadow.h>
.PP
.B struct spwd *getspent();
.PP
.B struct spwd *getspnam(char
.IB *name );
.PP
.B void setspent();
.PP
.B void endspent();
.PP
.B struct spwd *fgetspent(FILE
.IB *fp );
.PP
.B struct spwd *sgetspent(char
.IB *cp );
.PP
.B int putspent(struct spwd
.I *p,
.B FILE
.IB *fp );
.PP
.B int lckpwdf();
.PP
.B int ulckpwdf();
.SH 説明
.I shadow
は shadow パスワードファイル
\fI/etc/shadow\fR の内容を操作するルーチンである。
\fI#include\fR ファイルに与えられている構造体は以下の通り。
.sp
struct spwd {
.in +.5i
.br
	char	*sp_namp; /* user login name */
.br
	char	*sp_pwdp; /* encrypted password */
.br
	long	sp_lstchg; /* last password change */
.br
	int	sp_min; /* days until change allowed. */
.br
	int	sp_max; /* days before change required */
.br
	int	sp_warn; /* days warning for expiration */
.br
	int	sp_inact; /* days before account inactive */
.br
	int	sp_expire; /* date when account expires */
.br
	int	sp_flag; /* reserved for future use */
.br
.in \-.5i
}
.PP
各フィールドの意味は:
.sp
sp_namp \- ヌル終端されたユーザ名文字列へのポインタ
.br
sp_pwdp \- ヌル終端されたパスワード文字列へのポインタ
.br
sp_lstchg \- 1970年1月1日からパスワード最終変更日時迄の日数
.br
sp_min \- パスワード変更が出来るようになるまでの日数
.br
sp_max \- パスワードを変更しなくても良い日数
.br
sp_warn \- パスワードが期限切れになる前に、
期限切れが近づいている旨の警告をユーザに出す期間の日数
.br
sp_inact \- パスワードが期限切れになってから、
アカウントが不能となり使用できなくなるまでの日数
.br
sp_expire \- 1970年1月1からアカウントが使用不能となる日迄の日数
.br
sp_flag \- 将来使うときに向けて予約
.SH 説明
\fBgetspent\fR, \fBgetspname\fR, \fBfgetspent\fR, \fBsgetspent\fR
は、それぞれ \fBstruct spwd\fR へのポインタを返す。
\fBgetspent\fR はファイルから次のエントリを、
\fBfgetspent\fR は指定されたストリーム
(正しい書式のファイルとみなされる)
から次のエントリを返す。
\fBsgetspent\fR は入力として与えられた文字列を用いて
\fBstruct spwd\fR へのポインタを返す。
\fBgetspnam\fR はファイル中の現在の位置から
\fBname\fR にマッチするエントリを探す。
.PP
\fBsetspent\fR は
shadow パスワードファイルへのアクセスを開始するために、
\fBendspent\fR は終了するために用いられる。
.PP
\fI/etc/shadow\fR ファイルに対する排他的なアクセスを保証したい場合には、
\fBlckpwdf\fR ルーチンと \fBulckpwdf\fR ルーチンを用いる。
\fBlckpwdf\fR は \fBpw_lock\fR を用いて最大 15 秒間ロックを取得しようとする。
そして最初の 15 秒の残りの間、
\fBspw_lock\fR によって二度目のロックをしようと試み続ける。
計 15 秒間の間にいずれかの試みが失敗した場合は、
\fBlckpwdf\fR は \-1 を返す。
いずれのロックも成功した場合は 0 が返される。
.SH 返り値
これらのルーチンは、エントリが残っていない場合や、
処理の過程でエラーが発生した場合には NULL を返す。
返り値が \fBint\fR であるルーチンは、
成功したら 0 を、失敗したら \-1 を返す。
.SH 警告
shadowされたパスワードファイルへのアクセスは制限されているので、
これらのルーチンはスーパーユーザだけが利用できる。
.SH ファイル
\fI/etc/shadow\fR \- 暗号化されたユーザパスワード
.SH 関連項目
.BR getpwent (3),
.BR shadow (5)
.SH 著者
Julianne Frances Haugh (jockgrrl@ix.netcom.com)
