.\" Copyright 1989 - 1990, John F. Haugh II
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\" This product includes software developed by John F. Haugh, II
.\"      and other contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of John F. Haugh, II nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY JOHN HAUGH AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL JOHN HAUGH OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	$Id: shadow.5,v 1.1 2001/06/16 02:35:46 kloczek Exp $
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 1997 Kazuyoshi Furutaka
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Fri Feb 14 23:06:00 JST 1997
.\"         by Kazuyoshi Furutaka <furutaka@Flux.tokai.jaeri.go.jp>
.\"
.TH SHADOW 5
.SH 名前
shadow \- 暗号化されたパスワードファイル
.SH 説明
.I shadow
にはユーザのアカウントに対する暗号化されたパスワードの情報、及び
オプションとしてパスワードの有効期限の情報が記されている。
含まれている内容は
.IP "" .5i
ログイン名
.IP "" .5i
暗号化されたパスワード
.IP "" .5i
1970年1月1日から最後にパスワードが変更された日迄の日数
.IP "" .5i
パスワードが変更可となるまでの日数
.IP "" .5i
パスワードを変更しなくてはならなくなる日までの日数
.IP "" .5i
パスワード有効期限が来ることをユーザに警告する日数
.IP "" .5i
パスワード有効期限が過ぎてからアカウントが使用不能になる迄の日数
.IP "" .5i
1970年1月1日からアカウントが使用不能になる日までの日数
.IP "" .5i
予約された欄
.PP
パスワード欄は必ず記入されていなくてはならない。
暗号化されたパスワードは、aからz、AからZのアルファベット、
0から9迄の数字及び\.と/の64文字のうちの13から24文字からなる。
この文字列がどのように解釈されるかの詳細は\fIcrypt(3)\fRを参照せよ。
.PP
最後にパスワードを変更した日時は1970年1月1日からの日数として
記述される。
パスワードは十分な日数が経過してからでないと変更できず、
また最大日数が経過した後は必ず変更せねばならない。
変更可となるまでに要する日数が有効期限よりも大きい場合は、
ユーザがパスワードを変更することは出来ない。
.PP
パスワードの有効期限が過ぎてから指定した日数のうちにパスワードを変更
しなかった場合は、そのアカウントは無効となり、使用不能になる。
また、アカウントは指定した期日に、パスワード他の有効期限情報にはよらず、
使用不能となる。
.PP
この情報は\fB/etc/passwd\fR中に記されている如何なるパスワード及び
その有効期限情報よりも優先される。
.PP
パスワードの安全性をを維持するためには、このファイルを一般ユーザ
が読めるようにしてはならない。
.SH ファイル
/etc/passwd \- ユーザのアカウント情報
.br
/etc/shadow \- 暗号化されたユーザパスワード
.SH 関連項目
chage(1),
login(1),
passwd(1),
su(1),
sulogin(1M),
shadow(3),
passwd(5),
pwconv(8),
pwunconv(8)
.SH 翻訳者
古高和禎 <furutaka@Flux.tokai.jaeri.go.jp>
