.\" Copyright 1989 - 1992, Julianne Frances Haugh
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of Julianne F. Haugh nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY JULIE HAUGH AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL JULIE HAUGH OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	$Id: sulogin.8,v 1.3 2002/03/09 11:16:16 ankry Exp $
.\"
.\" Japanese Version Copyright (c) 1997 Kazuyoshi Furutaka
.\"         all rights reserved.
.\" Translated Fri Feb 14 23:06:00 JST 1997
.\"         by Kazuyoshi Furutaka <furutaka@Flux.tokai.jaeri.go.jp>
.\"
.TH SULOGIN 8
.SH 名前
sulogin \- シングルユーザlogin
.SH 書式
\fBsulogin\fR [\fItty-device\fR]
.SH 説明
.B sulogin
はシングルユーザモード時、ユーザがシステムにアクセス出来るように
なる前に\fI/etc/init\fRによって起動される。
この機能は、\fBinit\fRが適切に変更されているか、
\fB/etc/inittab\fRにシングルユーザ用loginのエントリがある
システムでのみ働かせる事が出来る。
.PP
次の様に入力を促される
.IP "" .5i
Type control-d to proceed with normal startup,
.br
(or give root password for system maintenance):
.PP
オプションのデバイス名引数を指定しなかった場合は、
標準ファイルディスクリプタを用いて入出力を行なう。
.PP
ユーザが正しいrootのパスワードを入力した場合は、
ログインセッションが開始される。
代わりに\fBEOF\fRが押された場合は、
システムはマルチユーザモードに入る。
.PP
ユーザがシングルユーザシェルを抜けた場合、もしくは\fBEOF\fRを押した場合は
システムはマルチユーザモードに入るために必要な初期化処理を開始する。
.SH 警告
.PP
このコマンドは、
\fBinit\fRが\fB/bin/sh\fRではなく\fBsulogin\fRを呼ぶ様変更されているか、
または\fIinittab\fR中でシングルユーザログインに対する設定がなされている
場合にのみ使用できる。
例えば、
.br
.sp 1
co:s:respawn:/etc/sulogin /dev/console
.br
.sp 1
.\" should execute the sulogin command in single user mode.
という行を記入しておく事により、シングルユーザモードではsulogin
コマンドが実行される。
.PP
可能な限り完全な環境が提供される。
.\" However, various devices may be unmounted or uninitialized and many 
.\" of the user commands may be unavailable or nonfunctional as a result.
しかしながら、様々なデバイスがマウントされていなかったり初期化されていな
かったりするため、多くのユーザコマンドが使えなかったり機能しない
かもしれない。
.SH ファイル
/etc/passwd \- ユーザアカウント情報
.br
/etc/shadow \- 暗号化されたパスワード及びその有効期限情報
.br
/.profile \- シングルユーザシェル用の初期化スクリプト
.SH 関連項目
.BR login (1),
.BR sh (1),
.BR init (8)
.SH 著者
Julianne Frances Haugh (jockgrrl@ix.netcom.com)
