.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     from: @(#)vipw.8	6.7 (Berkeley) 3/16/91
.\"	$Id: vipw.8,v 1.1 2005/12/13 11:34:59 kloczek Exp $
.\"
.Dd March 16, 1991
.Dt VIPW 8
.Os BSD 4
.Sh NAME
.Nm vipw
.Nd 패스워드 파일 편집
.Sh 사용법
.Nm vipw
.Sh 설명
.Nm Vipw
명령은 /etc/passwd 파일을 잠그고(lock) 편집하고, 
편집이 끝나면, /etc/passwd 파일을 잠금해제(unlock)한다.
이미 /etc/passwd 파일이 잠겨 있으면, 다음에 사용하라고 
메시지를 보여준다.
\fBvipw\fR에서 사용하는 기본 편집기는 \fBvi(1)\fR이다.
.Sh 환경변수
\fBvipw\fR는 다음 환경 변수를 사용한다.
.Bl -tag -width EDITOR
.It Ev EDITOR
사용할 편집기 지정. 초기값은 vi
.El
.Sh 관련 항목
.Xr passwd 1 ,
.Xr vi 1 ,
.Xr passwd 5
.Sh 발자취
.Nm
명령은 
.Bx 4.0 
에서 처음 나타났다.
