.\" Copyright 1989 - 1990, John F. Haugh II
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\" This product includes software developed by John F. Haugh, II
.\"      and other contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of John F. Haugh, II nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY JOHN HAUGH AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL JOHN HAUGH OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	$Id: su.1,v 1.1 2005/11/12 17:01:00 kloczek Exp $
.\"
.TH SU 1
.SH NAME
su \- Tarjoaa rajoitetut root oikeudet jollekin kayttajalle
.SH SYNTAKSI
.BR su " [" - ]
.RI [ kayttajanimi " [" argumentit ]]
.SH KUVAUS
.B su:ta
kaytetaan jotta voisi valiaikaisesti tulla joksikin toiseksi
kayttajaksi istunnon aikana. Oletuksena ilman argumentteja
kayttaja tulee rootiksi.
is used to become another user during a login session.
Invoked without a username, \fBsu\fR defaults to becoming
the super user.
Optiota \fB\-\fR voidaan kayttaa antamaan samanlainen
ymparisto kuin oikealla kayttajalla joka on tullut
sisaan suoraan omalla tunnuksellaan.
.PP
Muita optioita voidaan antaa kayttja nimen jalkeen, siina
tapauksessa jos ne ovat tuettuja kayttajan komentotulkissa.
Yksityiskohdissa, argumentti \fB-c\fR aiheuttaa sen etta
seruraavat argumentit ovat komentojen optioita.
Komento toteutetaan siina komentotulkissa joka on maaritelty
\fB$SHELL\fR, tai jos sita ei ole maaritelty niin kaytetaan
komentotulkkia joka on maaritelty \fI/etc/passwd\fR.
.PP
Kayttajalta voidaan kysya salasanaa jos se on takavarikoitu.
Vaara salasana tuottaa virheilmoituksen. Kaikki yritykset
menevat kuitenkin jarjestelman logitiedostoon.
.PP
Voimassaoleva ymparisto on myos uudessa komentotulkissa. Arvo
\fB$PATH\fR on uudelleenasetettu kohteessa \fB/bin:/usr/bin\fR
tavallisille kayttajille, tai \fB/bin:/usr/bin:/etc\fR rootille.
.SH OPTIOT
.PP
Tassa versiossa \fBsu\fR:lla on monia kaannosoptioita, vain
joitakin voi kayttaa yksityiskohtaisesti.
.SH TIEDOSTOT
/etc/passwd \- Kayttajatiedot
.br
/etc/shadow \- Kryptatut salasanat ja tunnuksen loppumispaivamaara.
.br
$HOME/.profile \- Alustustiedostot oletus komentotulkille
.SH KATSO MYOS
.BR login (1),
.BR sh (1)
.SH SUOMENNUS
.BR Mikko 
.BR Hurskainen 
.BR 1998 
.BR hurska@dlc.fi
