.\" Copyright 1991, Julianne Frances Haugh
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"; 中文版版权所有 soloman, Laser www.linuxforum.net 2000
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of Julianne F. Haugh nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY JULIE HAUGH AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL JULIE HAUGH OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	$Id: chpasswd.8,v 1.3 2005/04/05 19:08:57 kloczek Exp $
.\"
.TH CHPASSWD 8
.SH NAME 名字
chpasswd \- 成批更新用户的口令
.SH 总览
chpasswd [\-e]
.SH 描述
.B chpasswd
从系统的标准输入读入用户的名称和口令，
并利用这些信息来更新系统上已存在的用户的口令。
在没有用 \-e 这个开关选项的情况下，口令将按明文的形式接收。
如果使用了 \-e 选项，口令将只能以加密的方式传递。
每行的具体格式如下所示：
.sp 1
		\fI用户名\fR：\fI新口令\fR
.sp 1
用户名必须是系统上已存在的用户。
输入的密码在必要时进行加密处理，
如果口令文件具有时间特性，则同时更新。
.PP
此命令适用于大型的系统，在此类系统中，
用户一般都是一次同时生成的，而用 adduser 和
passwd 口令来对其一一进行设置一般说往往比较慢。
.SH 注意事项
.\" The \fBmkpasswd\fR command must be executed afterwards to update the
.\" DBM password files.
.\" This command may be discarded in favor of the newusers(8) command.
因为可以使用文件重定向进行输入，
即：chpasswd &lt; user&amp;passwd\-filename， 
如果输入文件是按非加密方式传递的话，请对该文件进行适当的加密。
.SH 又见
passwd(1),useradd(8),newuser(8)
.SH 作者
Julianne Frances Haugh (jfh@bga.com)
.SH "[中文版维护人]"
.B 所罗门 <solomen@email.com.cn>
.SH "[中文版最新更新]"
2000/11/26

.SH "[中国 Linux 论坛 man 手册页翻译计划]"
.TP
.BI http://www.cmpp.net/

